

  Q2. Explain the difference between JPA and Hibernate, and What are the advantages of using Hibernate over JDBC?
 	 
Answer)  The Difference Between JPA and Hibernate is :
		
		JPA:- 
		
		1. Java Persistence API (JPA) defines the management of relational data
		   in the Java applications.
		   
		2. It is just a specification. Various ORM tools implement it for data persistence.
		
		3. It is defined in javax.persistence package.
		
		4. The EntityManagerFactory interface is used to interact with the entity manager 
		   factory for the persistence unit. Thus, it provides an entity manager.
		   
		5. It uses EntityManager interface to create, read, and delete operations for instances 
		   of mapped entity classes. This interface interacts with the persistence context.
		   
		6. It uses Java Persistence Query Language (JPQL) as an object-oriented query language 
		   to perform database operations.
		   
		Hibernate:- 
		
		
		1. Hibernate is an Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool which is used to save the 
		   state of Java object into the database.
		   
		2. It is one of the most frequently used JPA implementation.
		
		3. It is defined in org.hibernate package.
		
		4. It uses SessionFactory interface to create Session instances.
		
		5. It uses Session interface to create, read, and delete operations for instances 
		   of mapped entity classes. It behaves as a runtime interface between a Java 
		   application and Hibernate.
		   
		6. It uses Hibernate Query Language (HQL) as an object-oriented query language to
		   perform database operations.
		   
		   
		   
		Some of the important advantages of Hibernate framework over JDBC are:-
		
		1. Hibernate removes a lot of boiler-plate code that comes with JDBC API, the code looks more cleaner 
			and readable.
			
		2. Hibernate supports inheritance, associations and collections. These features are not present with JDBC API.
		
		3. Hibernate Query Language (HQL) is more object oriented and close to java programming language. For JDBC, 
			we need to write native sql queries.
			
		4. Hibernate supports caching that is better for performance, JDBC queries are not cached hence performance is
			 low.
		
		5. Hibernate provide option through which we can create database tables too, for JDBC tables must exist in the
			 database.